---
title: "ReadMe"
author: "Terry Grimaldi"
date: "11 March 2016"
output: html_document
---

## 1.Repository Overview
This repository contains the **UCI HAR Dataset** downloaded from [UCI Machine Learning Center](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones) website and represents a raw data set for cleaning/tidying. The UCI data is stored in a sub-directory called **RawData**. The cleaned/tidied (i.e. the output after running the cleaning script) is stored in a sub-directory calleed **CleanData**.

To move from a raw data set to a clean data set the R script called **run_analysis.R** will be used. Instructions describing perparation and script running steps is documented in the file **CodeBook.md** file, This file also describes each variable in the final two tidy data sets generated by the script.

## 2.Repository Files
The repo directory structure and files are described below:

####2.1.Top Level Directory
1. **run_analysis.R** - Code to transformat and clean the raw data into clean data.
2. **ReadMe.md** - This file.
3. **CodeBook.Md** - Documents the steps to go from the raw data to clean/tidy data. Also documents the two clean data sets variables.

####2.2. RawData Sub-directory
This is the UCI HAR Dataset. For information relating to the data files in this sub-directory please read:

1. **README.txt** - describes files contained with the UCI HAR Dataset. For this reason the other files are not documented here.

####2.3.CleanData Sub-directory
This directory contains the the cleaned datasets written to csv and txt formats.

1. **cleanedDS.csv** - This file contains the test and train data from the raw data set merged into one data set. The cleaned data stores all variabled from th eraw data that represents the mean and SD for each variable for each test, ordered by activity, group and subjectID.
2. **cleanedDS.txt** - As per above but in txe file format. 
3. **cleanedSummaryDS.csv** - This file summerisers the cleanedDS dataset, calculating the mean value for each signal variable. The dataset is grouped by activity and subjectID, the set is ordered by subjectID.
4. **cleanedSummaryDS.txt** - As per above but in txe file format.